## GffRead usage examples

GffRead can be used to simply read an annotation file in a GFF format, and print it in either GFF3 (default) or 
GTF2 format (with the -T option), while discarding any non-trasncript features and optional attributes. 
It can also report some potential issues found in the input GFF records. The command line for such a quick GFF/GTF 
file cleanup would be:
```
gffread -E annotation.gff -o ann_simple.gff
```

This will create a minimalist GFF3 re-formatting of the transcript records found in the input file (`annotation.gff` in this example). 
The -E option directs GffRead to "expose" (display warnings about) any potential formatting issues 
encountered while parsing the input file.

In order to obtain the GTF2 version of the same transcript records, the `-T` option should be added:
```
gffread annotation.gff -T -o annotation.gtf
```

GffRead can be used to generate a FASTA file with the DNA sequences for all transcripts in a GFF file. For this operation 
a fasta file with the genomic sequences has to be provided as well. This can be accomplished with a command line like this:
```
gffread -w transcripts.fa -g genome.fa annotation.gff
```
The file `genome.fa` in this example would be a multi-fasta file with the chromosome/contig sequences of the target genome. 
This also requires that every contig or chromosome name found in the 1st column of the input GFF file 
(`annotation.gff` in this example) must have a corresponding sequence entry in the `genome.fa` file.

The CDS can be extracted using -x option, while the -y option can provide automatic CDS translation
(for transcripts having CDS ranges defined):

```
gffread -W -x transcripts_CDS.fa -g genome.fa annotation.gff
gffread -y transcripts_prot.fa -g genome.fa annotation.gff
```

Options can be combined in a single call:
```
gffread -w transcripts.fa -y transcripts_prot.fa -g genome.fa annotation.gff
```

This shows how the `--table` option can generate a tab delimited output from a GFF/GTF input.
```
gffread --table @id,@chr,@start,@end,@strand,@exons,Name,gene,product \
  -o annotation.tbl annotation.gff
```

The `exp_out` directory contains the expected output files that should be generated by the above examples.

`make test` or the script `run_tests.sh` in this directory will check if the expected output is 
being generated by the version of the gffread built in the current directory.

